# Federated Intrusion Detection In Autonomous Transportation Systems

### Abstract
The increasing number of automation in the transport sector is accompanied by a big problem: A raising number of cyberattacks all over the world and the highest possibility to be exposed to tremendously harmful and cost-intensive attacks ever. Intrusion Detection Systems are one of the most essential parts of cybersecurity and a highly effective mechanism to fight the growing threat. However, they have several problems in real applications, where the needed data is often heterogeneous and spread across multiple locations, and cannot be shared due to regulatory, competitiveness, or privacy reasons. Combined with one of the latest concepts in machine learning, the so-called Federated Learning, we could reach a new era of Intrusion Detection Systems. Federated Learning enables multiple parties to collaboratively construct a machine-learning model and improve the performance. We propose a framework using the popular Federated Averaging algorithm for the aggregation of autoencoder weights for intrusion detection in modern autonomous transportation systems. We present the customizable machine learning model, the federated optimization algorithm, and our own communication protocol with encrypted data transmission. In extensive experiments on the CIC-IDS17 dataset, our algorithm achieves a high accuracy of around 90% in normal traffic, a detection time of less than 200ms on average for anomalies, and a data throughput of around 150 samples per second. We showed that Federated Learning allows advancements of up to 20% in True Positive Rate for individual participating clients over a non-federated training setting. Implemented in autonomous transportation systems, our system would ensure that the vehicle is always one step ahead of the attacker.


### License
This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.
